# Welcome to IPFS Scan

### What is IPFS Scan

IPFS Scan is a free, handy and open IPFS explorer application.

### How to use IPFS Scan

1. Enter a file `CID` and search.
   - A Content Identifier `CID` is a self-describing content-addressed label used to point to the data stored on IPFS. It is the core identifier used for IPFS.
   - `CIDs` are short, regardless of the size of their underlying content. `CIDs` are based on the content’s cryptographic hash.

2. IPFS Scan tells you how IPFS stores a file (by the given `CID`), including:
   - Dose this file exist on IPFS?
   - Is this file available in different locations across the globe?
   - How many IPFS replicas and where are they stored?
   - Which IPFS Pinning Service(s) stores the replicas?

# Explaining Search Results

### Reporting Gateways

We have several reporting gateways wide spread across the world.

Reporting gateways respond to search requests from IPFS Scan independently. Reports generated by each reporting gateway reflects the information that the gateway sees from its own perspective. More results from independent reporting gateways means higher credibility and reliability.

Want to contribute a reporting gateway? Please refer to [this link](https://github.com/crustio/ipfsscan/blob/main/docs/contribute-gateway.md).

### Availability

 `Availability` refers to the result from IPFS API `/api/v0/dag/get`.

 `Availability` indicates whether the file (or the content) is available or not from the reporting gateway's point of view. 

### Connected Providing Peers

`Connected Providing Peers` (shown as `/dht/findprovs`)refers to the result from IPFS API `/api/v0/dht/findprovs`.

`Connected Providing Peers` indicate which IPFS peers can provide a replica for the specified file.

> Note: `/api/v0/dag/get` and `/api/v0/dht/findprovs` may give contradict results in occasional case because they come from two different APIs responses.

### Assurance  

`Assurance` is a positive declaration intended to give confidence or promise on something. In our scenario of IPFS storage, we focus on:

   1. Whether your file will be stored on IPFS
   2. For how long your file will be stored on IPFS
   3. Who will guarantee 1.&2. for you  

`Assurance` is extremely crucial for some high-value contents, such as NFT metadata and sensitive data, when they are going to be stored on a distributed / decentralized network.  

### Results from IPFS Pinning Service

IPFS remote pinning services allow users pin their IPFS files to remote stable IPFS nodes to ensure file's reliability and accesibility.  

Usually, they are paid services and are consequently expected to provide `Assurance` to their users.   

IPFS Scan allow any third-party IPFS pinning services to register as a trusted data provider.  

Any 'trusted' pinning service is asked to provide on request detailed information, including file availability, replicas distribution as well as how the given file is assured to be stored on IPFS by the pinning service.








